LICENSE AGREEMENT

For our most recently updated License Agreement, please check our web site at 
http://www.dgusa.com

This is a legal agreement between you and Dynamic Graphics, Inc. The term 
Content is defined as any images, illustrations, photographs and video, 
including stills from the video, included in the Product purchased. By using 
Content, you agree to be bound by this Agreement. If you do not agree, promptly 
discontinue use. Agreement is as follows:
All Content is licensed to or owned by Dynamic Graphics and is protected by 
international copyright laws. Dynamic Graphics warrants that it has the right to 
grant this license to you. This is a perpetual License at will and can be 
terminated by Dynamic Graphics at any time. Neither Dynamic Graphics nor its 
licensors shall be liable to you for any consequential, incidental, direct, 
indirect or other damages arising out of the license of Content, including any 
claim of a third party.
Your rights of usage under this Agreement is the non-exclusive, non-transferable 
right to use the Content in whole or in part in advertising and promotional 
materials for you or your customers or direct clients. Examples of use include: 
advertisements, articles in magazines and newspapers, reports, brochures, books, 
newsletters, multimedia applications and presentations, packaging, broadcast, 
films, documentaries, television productions, commercials, and training and 
industrial videos. Content may be used as part of a web site or design which 
appears on a web site on the internet but may not be used in a downloadable or 
FTP format. Final productions of Video Product should use the following credit: 
"Video Copyright 1999 m2 Software Equity LLC", appearing in an obvious credits 
page or screen.
Content may not be rented, sold, given away, leased, sub-licensed or loaned in 
any form. Additionally, you agree to take all steps necessary to prevent any 
third party from duplicating or distributing any Content. Defamatory, offensive, 
pornographic, or otherwise unlawful uses of images are expressly prohibited. Use 
of logos or trademarks without authorization from the owner is denied. You may 
not use the Content in any form on or in products for resale in quantities 
greater than 100,000.  Content may not be used for calendars, postcards, posters 
or framed prints.
All equipment accessing Content must be at one physical location and be 
operating under one organization. No copies of this Content may be resold or 
redistributed.
This license will terminate automatically without notice from Dynamic Graphics 
if you fail to comply with any provision of this license. Upon termination, you 
shall destroy all Content or copies thereof. If any provision of this Agreement 
is held invalid, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and 
effect.
All rights not specifically granted to you by this Agreement are reserved. 
Questions on usage or rights should be directed to Dynamic Graphics, Inc. at the 
address or telephone number listed below.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois.

©Copyright 1999 Dynamic Graphics, Inc., 6000 N. Forest Park Drive, Peoria, 
Illinois 61614, U.S.A. (309) 688-8800.

©Copyright 1999 John Foxx Images B.V. and Images 4 Communication B.V. of 
Amsterdam Holland.

©Copyright 1999 m2 Software Equity LLC and International Film & Video.

All Content is licensed to or owned by Dynamic Graphics, Inc.

