The CD-ROM that accompanies Director 8 and Lingo Bible contains all the files needed to do 
the exercises included in the book. The practice files are located in the Exercise folder. 
Within it are the folders for each chapter that requires practice files. The chapter folders
are named Ch02, Ch03, and so on. In the PDF Book folder are all Director 8 and Lingo Bible 
chapters in portable document format (PDF) format. We have built an extensive library of 
buttons that you can use royalty free in your movies. The buttons are supplied as Cast 
Libraries in a folder to install the buttons in your Library Palette, and as original art 
that you can modify by using either Photoshop or Fireworks. You can find all the button art
in the Cool Buttons folder on the CD-ROM. You’ll also find a Storyboards folder that contains
two storyboard templates in PDF format.

In addition, there’s a "Goodies" folder that contains the following:
* Clip art
* Sound files
* Digital video clips
* Demonstration copies of commercial programs
* Essential shareware utilities

Using the CD-ROM

This CD-ROM is a hybrid, which means it contains files that will run on more than one 
computer platform - in this case, either a PC running Windows 95/98 or a Macintosh.

Many of the files and programs on the CD-ROM have versions for both the Macintosh and Windows
platforms. Although these files and programs may be essentially the same in content, the 
method used to install or access them may be different. This appendix includes specific 
installation instructions for and additional information about the files and programs. The 
specific installation instructions are also available in the Readme.txt file located in the 
CD-ROM’s root directory. Additional Readme.txt and Install.txt files are stored in some of 
the folders on the CD-ROM. As you decompress (unstuff or unzip) files, you may come across 
these additional text files. Be sure to read each one for more instruction. For more 
information on the Auto-Run program stored on the CD-ROM, read the following sections.

Running the CD-ROM in Windows 9x/NT

The Windows 9x/NT version of the CD-ROM contains an Auto-Run program that automatically 
starts the CD-ROM after it is loaded in your CD-ROM drive.

To run the CD-ROM, follow these steps:

1. Insert the CD-ROM into your CD-ROM drive.

2. Close the drawer. If Auto Insertion Notification is activated, the CD-ROM begins to play 
   a movie and no further action is required.

If the movie does not start playing, do the following:

1. From either My Computer or Windows Explorer, open the drive that corresponds to 
   your CD-ROM drive.

2. Double-click the Start.exe file. This starts the introductory movie.

Files and Programs on the CD-ROM

The Director 8 and Lingo Bible CD-ROM contains a sampling of clip media available from a 
variety of vendors, demonstration copies of programs useful in the preparation of Director
movies, shareware utilities, and Xtras that enhance Director’s capabilities. The following 
describes the files and programs on the CD-ROM.

Many of the utilities on the CD-ROM are shareware applications. That means you can test them
to determine whether they meet your application development needs. If you use them, you are 
required to pay the registration fee. These fees usually are nominal, and by paying them you
support the individuals and companies that developed the tools. You also keep yourself - 
honest - as far as copyright laws are concerned. If you use a tool, pay the fee. If you do 
not find the shareware application useful, remove it from your computer system. After you 
register for a shareware product, you are automatically informed of new product releases and
upgrades.

In the following sections, you learn more about the vendors and "resources" available on the
Director 8 and Lingo Bible CD-ROM. Because space is limited, included (when available) is 
the Web address for each vendor so that you can seek out more detail on your own.

For clip media, see the "Copying Clipmedia" section for information on the vendor name, the
type of clip media, and the folder in which the files are stored.

Adobe Acrobat Reader

Adobe’s Acrobat Reader is the essential tool for universal document exchange. This free 
utility enables you to view and navigate through any PDF file. For more information, visit
Adobe’s Web site at http://www.adobe.com/. In the PDF Book folder are PDF files for all 
chapters of Director 8 and Lingo Bible.

Aladdin Systems, Inc.

Aladdin offers a wide range of solutions for compression, expansion, access, version control, 
and security. On the accompanying CD-ROM you’ll find StuffIt Expander. See the listings that follow.

Aladdin’s Expander for Windows

Expander for Windows is a freeware product that enables you to decompress, decode, convert, 
and access files from all the popular compression archive formats. These include StuffIt, 
Zip, UUCode, BinHex, MacBinary, Arc, Arj, gzip, LHA, Unix Compress, Tar, Compact Pro, Apple
link package, and more. 

Allaire Homesite

Allaire Homesite is a professional HTML editor. Allaire calls its interface WYSIWYN (what
you see is what you need), which gives you all the necessary site-building tools at your 
fingertips. Increased productivity, enhanced project management, extended site deployment, 
and support for the latest Web technologies make Homesitea great tool for quickly building 
Web sites. Homesite is the HTML editor that Macromedia ships with the Windows version of 
Dreamweaver 

AutoPlay Menu Studio

Used by thousands of companies worldwide, AutoPlay Menu Studio is a quick and easy-to-use 
tool for creating professional AutoPlay menus for your CD-ROMs. Some of the world’s largest
companies have used AutoPlay for their products, including 3Com, Intel, Lucent, and Motorola.
Point and click your way to a professional CD-ROM AutoPlay menu by using this utility. 

Dynamic Graphics, Inc.

Dynamic Graphics, Inc., is the company behind innovative art and idea products such as
Clipper Creative Art Service, Print Media Service, Designer’s Club, and Dynamic Graphics 
ArtWorks.

Equilibrium DeBabelizer Pro for Windows Demo

The power of DeBabelizer, a standard tool of Macintosh artists, is now available for Windows 
95/98. This version enables you to try out the power and versatility of this editing program
for graphics and video. For more information, run the Intro.exe movie in the 
Goodies\DeBabelizer folder on the CD-ROM. 

Indigo Rose

Indigo Rose is the producer of two excellent products: Setup Factory and AutoPlay Menu 
Studio. Please see the sections about those products for more information, and visit the 
Web site at http://www.indigorose.com.

Innovative Media Corp.

Innovative Media Corp. offers Sonic Waves 300, a comprehensive clip-audio library that 
includes more than 2800 sound effects (16-bit WAV files), more than 200 stereo music clips
(16-bit WAV format), and more than 400 MIDI music files. The two-CD set includes a bound, 
easy-to-use index of the more than 3,000 audio tracks grouped by theme. All sounds are 
provided as a full buy-out library. You do not need to pay license or drop fees, and you 
never have to report usage.

JASC, Inc.

JASC, Inc., is the developer of Paint Shop Pro, as well as several other products, such as 
Image Robot, Quick View Plus, Media Center, and Illuminatus. For more information on its 
products, visit the Web site at http://www.jasc.com. Please see the section on Paint Shop
Pro for more information.

Macromedia

Macromedia is the developer of Director, as well as several of the premier Web-authoring 
tools available in the marketplace. The accompanying CD-ROM includes demonstration versions 
of Macromedia’s dynamic HTML authoring system (Dreamweaver), its vector animation tool 
(Flash), and its application for manipulating graphics designed for the Web (Fireworks).

Media Cleaner Pro

Media Cleaner Pro is a professional production tool that optimizes and compresses digital 
videos for desktop playback. It produces movies that can play on both Macintosh and Windows
machines. Media Cleaner Pro enables you to preprocess and compress your movies using any of
the available QuickTime codecs, including CinePak and Indeo. You also can create RealMedia 
(RealVideo), RealAudio, MPEG, AIFF Windows Media (NetShow), and AVI files. Media Cleaner Pro
has powerful filters to improve video compression, and timesaving features that help you 
efficiently manage your compression jobs.

Paint Shop Pro

Paint Shop Pro, from JASC, Inc., is a feature-rich image-editing program. Paint Shop Pro has
the tools that are found in expensive commercial image-editing programs, but at a shareware 
price.

QuickTime

QuickTime is the core multimedia technology used in thousands of CD-ROM titles and hundreds 
of new DVD titles. In addition to supporting digital video formats such as AVI, AVR, DV, and
OpenDML, QuickTime 4 features video compressors and decompressors that make streaming video 
a reality - even with dial-up Internet access at slow modem speeds. Along with CinePak and 
the H.263 compressor, QuickTime 4 includes state-of-the-art Sorenson Video, which delivers 
the highest video quality while maintaining the smallest file size.

For audiophiles, QuickTime 4 supports everything from Qualcomm’s PureVoice technology to the
QDesign Music Compressor (which can reduce one minute of CD-quality audio from an 11MB file
to a 150K file that delivers full-bandwidth, 16-bit, 44.1 kHz stereo in real time over a 
28.8 Kbps connection).

QuickTime 4 is the standard for audio, video, and QTVR on both the Macintosh and Windows 
platforms. For more information, visit Apple’s QuickTime site at 
http://www.apple.com/quicktime/.

Rarefaction

Rarefaction has developed several audio libraries called A Poke In The Ear with A Sharp 
Stick that contain hundreds of rare and unusual sound effects. Most of the effects are 
loopable and make great button and ambient background sounds.

Riddle of the Sphinx

The Riddle of the Sphinx (ROTS) is an adventure game authored in Director. It uses QTVR 
scenes created in Strata Studio Pro. This game is on the same quality level as Riven.

ROTS was built by Omni Creative Group, Int’l, founded in 1991 by Jeff and Karen Tobler, 
and is distributed by Dreamcatcher Interactive. Omni Creative is a full-service multimedia
company specializing in 3D animation and gaming environments. View the ROTS trailer for an
overview of Riddle, and you’ll discover an Egyptian adventure based on the Sphinx and the 
Great Pyramids. The story is partially based on factual events and current archaeological 
findings.

Setup Factory

Create professional Windows installation programs for your finished product, without being
a programming genius. Setup Factory walks you through the process of creating an installer
for your product you only need to respond to screen prompts to build the installer. 

SmartDraw

SmartDraw is an inexpensive, easy-to-use Windows program for drawing flowcharts, 
organizational charts, technical drawings, Web graphics, diagrams, and business 
presentations. No drawing skill is required, because SmartDraw includes more than 1500 
ready-made shapes and symbols that you simply drag into your drawings. For more information,
visit the SmartDraw Web site at http://www.smartdraw.com/. 

Strata

Strata’s entry level 3D application Strata3D is an ideal tool to introduce you to 3D image
and animation creation. It’s easy to comprehend interface allows you to quickly create 
stunning 3 dimensional scenes that are designed for web, multimedia, video and print 
applications. Strata3D is a fully functional program (not a demo version) that can grow 
with you as your skills increase. You can upgrade it to add more advanced features such 
as inverse kinematics, particle effects and collision detection. Be sure and click on the 
Web links in the program to get to the wealth of information available on their Web site 
including online tutorials.

Terran Interactive, Inc.

Terran Interactive, Inc., is the developer of Media Cleaner Pro. See the section on Media 
Cleaner Pro for more information. You can contact the company at http://www.terran.com/. 
Terran also is the developer of a useful site for digital video producers: Codec Central.
Visit it at http://www.terran.com/codecCentral/index.html.

WinZip

WinZip, from Nico Mak Computing, Inc., is an indispensable shareware utility that enables 
you to compress files, making them easier to distribute via floppy disk or the Internet. 
The version on the CD-ROM is an evaluation version.

Installing from the CD-ROM

This section explains how to install the CD-ROM elements on your system.

Copying clip media
Most of the clip-media files on the Director 8 and Lingo Bible CD-ROM are stored in an 
uncompressed format. This enables you to use the files either directly from the CD-ROM 
or to copy them into a folder on your hard drive. Unless otherwise noted for a specific
item, use the following steps to copy clip-media files and folders to your hard drive.

Copying Clip-Media Files/Folders

1.	Insert the Director 8 and Lingo Bible CD-ROM into your CD-ROM drive.

2.	Open the Goodies folder and select the folder for the item you want.

3.	If you want to copy the entire folder to your hard drive, drag the folder from the
	CD-ROM to the hard drive.

	Macintosh users: Before dragging folders to your hard drive, open the icon for the
	hard drive. 

	Windows users: Open My Computer on the desktop and then double-click the icon for 
	the CD-ROM. Then drag the clip-media folder to the hard drive icon where you want 
	the folder copied.

4.	To copy a specific file, open the folder that contains the desired file, and drag 
	the file to a folder on your hard drive.

5.	Remember the name of the folder so that you can locate files later. You may want to
	place all practice files in a folder immediately below the folder that holds the 
	Director program files. Typically, the folder is Macintosh HD:Director 8 on the Mac
	or \Program Files\Macromedia\Director 8 on a Windows system.

Most of the applications and utilities on the CD-ROM are in compressed format. To install 
and use them, you need to decompress, install, and in some cases place the files in a 
specific folder on your hard drive. The first step is ensure that you have WinZip installed 
on your system. Instructions follow for installing WinZip. After WinZip is installed, refer 
to the other following sections for information on installing the applications and utilities.

Installing WinZip

There are two methods for installing WinZip under Windows 9x/NT: directly from the CD-ROM or
through the taskbar Start menu.

Installing WinZip Directly from the CD-ROM

1.	If necessary, insert the Director 8 and Lingo Bible CD-ROM into the CD-ROM drive.

2.	If Auto-Run starts to play the Director 8 and Lingo Bible movie, you can press Esc 
	to exit the movie.

3.	From My Computer or Windows Explorer, select the drive letter for your CD-ROM drive.

4.	Open the Goodies folder, and then open the WinZip folder.

5.	Double-click Winzip80.exe. The Setup program automatically detects which version of 
	Windows you are running.	

6.	Follow the screen prompts to complete the installation.

Installing WinZip from the Taskbar Start Menu

1.	In the taskbar, open the Start menu and select Run.

2.	In the Run dialog box, type [D]:\goodies\winzip\winzip80.exe, replacing [D] with 
	the letter of your CD-ROM drive. Press the Enter key. The Setup program detects 
	Which version of Windows you are running.

3.	Follow the screen prompts to complete the installation.

WinZip upgrades

If you already have an older version of WinZip, follow the installation instructions above. 
You can install this version of WinZip in the same location as a previously installed copy 
of WinZip. Remember that this is an evaluation version of WinZip. WinZip is a shareware 
program; if you use it beyond the evaluation time period, you must register it and pay the 
shareware fee.

Installing compressed (zipped) files

To install any program that is compressed (ends with a .zip extension), you need WinZip or
a similar compression/decompression program installed. If you do not have an appropriate 
program for unzipping files, see the preceding section for directions on installing a copy 
of WinZip.

Installing Compressed Files

1.	In most cases, it is best to copy the .zip file to your Windows Desktop. Create a
	folder to hold the compressed files (call it Zipped Stuff or whatever you want). 
	After creating the folder, copy the .zip file from the Goodies folder to your 
	Desktop folder.

2.	If there is a Readme.txt or Install.txt file in the Goodies folder, read it first.

3.	With WinZip or a similar program installed, double-click the .zip file’s icon to 
	open it.

4.	Extract all the files in the Zip archive to a folder on your hard drive. Unless a 
	suggested target folder is listed, just extract the files into the same folder on 
	your Desktop.

5.	When finished, close WinZip. Beginning with version 6.0, WinZip enables you to 
	take files that have installation programs and install them from within WinZip 
	by either clicking the Install button or double-clicking an installer program.

6.	Locate the folder to which you extracted the files and double-click Setup.exe. 
	The installation process starts.

7.	During the installation, you may be prompted for the folder and program group in 
	which to install the application. Either accept the default selection or specify 
	another location and group for the installation. The installer does the rest.

8.	Follow the screen prompts to complete the installation.

9.	When finished, check to see if a Readme.txt or Install.txt file decompressed. If 
	so, read it for additional instructions.

Installing from executable (.exe) files

To install an executable program (such as Setup.exe or Install.exe), you need WinZip (or 
a compression/decompression program similar to it). If you do not have an appropriate 
program for unzipping files, see the earlier section on how to install a copy of WinZip.

Installing from an Executable File

1.	If there is a Readme.txt or Install.txt file in the Goodies folder, read it first.

2.	Next, copy the .exe file from the Goodies folder to a folder on your Desktop.

3.	Locate the folder to which you saved the file, and double-click the .exe file.
	In some cases, the .exe file is a self-extracting Zip file. In other cases, it’s 
	an installation program.

4.	You may be prompted for a directory and group to which you want to install the 
	program. Either accept the defaults or choose another folder and group for 
	installing the program.

5.	Follow the screen prompts to complete the installation.

6.	When finished, check to see if a Readme.txt or Install.txt file is in the target 
	folder. If so, read it for additional instructions.
	
